lecture/introduction/introduction_3.md, before:

# Introduction III

Within the third session we'll have a nice mixture of different topics, including both theoretical and practical aspects. At first, we'll go through the tools and resources we discussed in the first two session again and connecting the dots between them, especially with regard to `project & data management`. Next, we'll once more spent a look at the current state of the academic/scientific system, this time focussing more on the `reproducibility/replicability crisis` and potential (partial) solutions. Finally, we'll start analyzing the data acquired within our `demo experiment`.

## Topics 💡👨🏻‍🏫 

In the following you'll find the `objectives` and `materials` for each of the topics we'll discuss during this session.

### A brief 101 to connect the dots
We discussed quite a bit of tools and resources that can help us to make `research` more `open` & `reproducible`, throughout all stages of a project. However, there's a steep learning curve if you curve without learning and given that all/most of this will be completely new to you, we'll go through the basics of certain tools/resources and their connection/integration in a step-by-step manner. More precisely, we'll start the `project & data management` for the `demo experiment groups`.

#### Objectives📍
- connect resources/tools we have explored 
- start demo project work based on open & reproducible science
- DMPs 
- Ask and answer questions
- Have a great time

#### Materials📓

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQ20yPXCmc2VPeK3ugnN3XKVFLl5icyqhM_cmkWow6vLhc6A6KW44ZPM78KjLQRdtxMn6EwOf3h2OW1/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="600" height="370" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>

### Replicability crisis, open science & pre-registration
Yes, you already heard a lot of the current state of the academic system & science, specifically the problems. TL;DR: it's all bad. However, there are a few aspects we still need to discuss in more detail. 
This session we'll focus on the `replicability/reproducibility crisis` and potential (partial) solutions to it. This will entail outlining various causes of the `replicability/reproducibility crisis` and how, for example, `pre-registration` can be utilized to address parts of it.

#### Objectives
- learn about different aspects replication crisis 
- get to know proposed solutions
- situate open science within this discussion
- Ask and answer questions
- Have a great time

#### Materials

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vRpCiNo_xXkZPz7rka3Z8tvCSYNqSlyTG3t7r89uVLTHmLsFHwr7S3l_oeK1ownuN09xGuzHQzMo-fi/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="600" height="370" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>

## Demo project related work 🥼🧑🏽‍💻🧑🏾‍💻  

It's finally time to start working on the `demo experiment` and we'll go full in covering quite a bit of ground: beside setting the ground work for the `project & data management` aspects within the first part of this session, we'll also directly applying the contents of the `replciability/reproducibility`  & `pre-registration` discussion, as well as beginning to analyze the acquired `data`.  

### OSF project
As mentioned above, this session will start with a step-by-step setup within which every `demo experiment group` will create an `OSF` project as a central landing page for everything project related and start integration different tools/resources (e.g. zotero, etc.). This `OSF` project will be continuously update throughout the work on the `demo experiment` and also be part of the grade.  

### Data management plan 
You'll be asked to start drafting a `data management plan` that should be added to the `OSF` project. More information will be provided within the slides but in general `demo experiment groups` should work together to fill out a `data management plan` template of their choice. As it will change throughout your work on the `demo experiment` we'll keep every version and check its evolution in the end.  

### Pre-registration of demo-experiment
Comparably to the `data management plan`, `demo experiment groups` will work together on their `pre-registration` and evaluate its changes throughout their work on the project. Here, we'll use the [aspredicted](https://aspredicted.org/) platform to get some experience. 

### Analyses of demo-experiment
You've heard "a lot" about it and after weeks of waiting, the moment is finally here: we'll start exploring and analyzing the `demo experiment data`. Along the way we'll incorporate various aspects of the previous sessions, including the `FAIR`-ness of our data. 


## Project related work 🥼🧑🏿‍🔬👩🏻‍🔬

Not applicable. 

## tasks for subsequent meeting 🖥️✍🏽📖

Below you'll find the tasks you should spend a look at for next week's session.    

### check demo experiment literature 

In preparation for our `scientific reading & writing section`, please go briefly through [Mensh & Kording (2017)](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005619).

<iframe src="https://bibbase.org/show?bib=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.zotero.org%2Fgroups%2F4504479%2Fitems%3Fkey%3DBfP7bN7FF9dJwtyiLBORewdg%26format%3Dbibtex%26limit%3D100" frameborder="0" width="700" height="370"></iframe>

Commit message:

update tasks wrt zotero library

lecture/introduction/introduction_3.md, after:

# Introduction III

Within the third session we'll have a nice mixture of different topics, including both theoretical and practical aspects. At first, we'll go through the tools and resources we discussed in the first two session again and connecting the dots between them, especially with regard to `project & data management`. Next, we'll once more spent a look at the current state of the academic/scientific system, this time focussing more on the `reproducibility/replicability crisis` and potential (partial) solutions. Finally, we'll start analyzing the data acquired within our `demo experiment`.

## Topics 💡👨🏻‍🏫 

In the following you'll find the `objectives` and `materials` for each of the topics we'll discuss during this session.

### A brief 101 to connect the dots
We discussed quite a bit of tools and resources that can help us to make `research` more `open` & `reproducible`, throughout all stages of a project. However, there's a steep learning curve if you curve without learning and given that all/most of this will be completely new to you, we'll go through the basics of certain tools/resources and their connection/integration in a step-by-step manner. More precisely, we'll start the `project & data management` for the `demo experiment groups`.

#### Objectives📍
- connect resources/tools we have explored 
- start demo project work based on open & reproducible science
- DMPs 
- Ask and answer questions
- Have a great time

#### Materials📓

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQ20yPXCmc2VPeK3ugnN3XKVFLl5icyqhM_cmkWow6vLhc6A6KW44ZPM78KjLQRdtxMn6EwOf3h2OW1/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="600" height="370" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>

### Replicability crisis, open science & pre-registration
Yes, you already heard a lot of the current state of the academic system & science, specifically the problems. TL;DR: it's all bad. However, there are a few aspects we still need to discuss in more detail. 
This session we'll focus on the `replicability/reproducibility crisis` and potential (partial) solutions to it. This will entail outlining various causes of the `replicability/reproducibility crisis` and how, for example, `pre-registration` can be utilized to address parts of it.

#### Objectives
- learn about different aspects replication crisis 
- get to know proposed solutions
- situate open science within this discussion
- Ask and answer questions
- Have a great time

#### Materials

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vRpCiNo_xXkZPz7rka3Z8tvCSYNqSlyTG3t7r89uVLTHmLsFHwr7S3l_oeK1ownuN09xGuzHQzMo-fi/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="600" height="370" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>

## Demo project related work 🥼🧑🏽‍💻🧑🏾‍💻  

It's finally time to start working on the `demo experiment` and we'll go full in covering quite a bit of ground: beside setting the ground work for the `project & data management` aspects within the first part of this session, we'll also directly applying the contents of the `replciability/reproducibility`  & `pre-registration` discussion, as well as beginning to analyze the acquired `data`.  

### OSF project
As mentioned above, this session will start with a step-by-step setup within which every `demo experiment group` will create an `OSF` project as a central landing page for everything project related and start integration different tools/resources (e.g. zotero, etc.). This `OSF` project will be continuously update throughout the work on the `demo experiment` and also be part of the grade.  

### Data management plan 
You'll be asked to start drafting a `data management plan` that should be added to the `OSF` project. More information will be provided within the slides but in general `demo experiment groups` should work together to fill out a `data management plan` template of their choice. As it will change throughout your work on the `demo experiment` we'll keep every version and check its evolution in the end.  

### Pre-registration of demo-experiment
Comparably to the `data management plan`, `demo experiment groups` will work together on their `pre-registration` and evaluate its changes throughout their work on the project. Here, we'll use the [aspredicted](https://aspredicted.org/) platform to get some experience. 

### Analyses of demo-experiment
You've heard "a lot" about it and after weeks of waiting, the moment is finally here: we'll start exploring and analyzing the `demo experiment data`. Along the way we'll incorporate various aspects of the previous sessions, including the `FAIR`-ness of our data. 


## Project related work 🥼🧑🏿‍🔬👩🏻‍🔬

Not applicable. 

## tasks for subsequent meeting 🖥️✍🏽📖

Below you'll find the tasks you should spend a look at for next week's session.    

### check demo experiment literature 

In preparation for our `scientific reading & writing section`, please go briefly through the `ten simple rules` papers (`reading`, `structuring`, `writing`, `reviewing`) in the course `zotero library`.

<iframe src="https://bibbase.org/show?bib=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.zotero.org%2Fgroups%2F4504479%2Fitems%3Fkey%3DBfP7bN7FF9dJwtyiLBORewdg%26format%3Dbibtex%26limit%3D100" frameborder="0" width="700" height="370"></iframe>
